README.md, before:

# Oak
A rails blogging engine (Rails 5.2+) that supports modern IndieWeb standards, like MicroPub and IndieAuth.


## Installation
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'oak-rails', github: 'jeffmcfadden/oak'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle
```

Or install it yourself as:
```bash
$ gem install oak
```

Mount the engine in `routes.rb`:

    mount Oak::Engine, at: "/blog"

Install and run the migrations

    $ rails oak:install:migrations
    $ rails db:migrate

* Install the Acts as Taggable migrations

Install Friendly ID if you didn't already have it in your app

```bash
$ rails generate friendly_id
$ rails db:migrate
```

## Configuration


### Initializer

Create a file in your rails app `config/initializers/oak.rb`

Here's an example configuration:

```ruby
Oak.configure do |config|
  config.author_class = "User"
  
  if Rails.env.development?
    config.site_name = "TEST My Great Blog"
  else
    config.site_name = "My Great Blog"
  end
  
  config.site_description = "The words of a writer, written down."
  
  config.posts_per_page = 8
  
  config.tags_to_exclude_from_home_page = ['micro','secret']
  
end
```

### AWS S3 Configuration

Oak currently only supports S3 as the backing store for assets. (Would welcome any PRs that want to clean that up).

Be sure that you have the following environment variables setup (values are examples):

    AWS_ACCESS_KEY: "AKIAQWERRPIADFXGSJQ"
    AWS_SECRET_KEY: "CjBLCfdxasdf35p08dua;"
    AWS_BUCKET: "my.blog.assets"
    AWS_REGION: "us-west-1"


## Limitations

* Intended only for a personal site with a single blog.
* Not intended for use with multiple authors, though you can _sorta_ get around that.

## What Works

* Authorizing via IndieAuth
* Publishing text via MicroPub
* Creating/Editing/Removing Posts
* RSS Feed
* JSON Feed
* Tags
* Support for Media uploads via Admin
* Receiving Webmentions (just displayed in admin at this time)
* Sending Webmentions (sent manually at this time)
* Micropub Media Endpoint

## Still Working On

* Deleting / Undeleting Posts (via MicroPub, works fine via admin interface)
* Easier/Better Integration with the host application. Still requires a lot of hand-work to get things working smoothly.
* Syndication
* Pubsub

## Micropub Spec Implementation Status

Currently **23/34** test passing at the micropub.rocks tests: [https://micropub.rocks/implementation-reports/servers/278/Ix5NV57E72H4mWjUhdIh](https://micropub.rocks/implementation-reports/servers/278/Ix5NV57E72H4mWjUhdIh)

Or, checkout the entire [W3C Micropub Spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/micropub/#feature-li-1).

## Contributing
Fork, pull request.

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Add support for uploading photos via multipart at the same time as a new post.

README.md, after:

# Oak
A rails blogging engine (Rails 5.2+) that supports modern IndieWeb standards, like MicroPub and IndieAuth.


## Installation
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'oak-rails', github: 'jeffmcfadden/oak'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle
```

Or install it yourself as:
```bash
$ gem install oak
```

Mount the engine in `routes.rb`:

    mount Oak::Engine, at: "/blog"

Install and run the migrations

    $ rails oak:install:migrations
    $ rails db:migrate

* Install the Acts as Taggable migrations

Install Friendly ID if you didn't already have it in your app

```bash
$ rails generate friendly_id
$ rails db:migrate
```

## Configuration


### Initializer

Create a file in your rails app `config/initializers/oak.rb`

Here's an example configuration:

```ruby
Oak.configure do |config|
  config.author_class = "User"
  
  if Rails.env.development?
    config.site_name = "TEST My Great Blog"
  else
    config.site_name = "My Great Blog"
  end
  
  config.site_description = "The words of a writer, written down."
  
  config.posts_per_page = 8
  
  config.tags_to_exclude_from_home_page = ['micro','secret']
  
end
```

### AWS S3 Configuration

Oak currently only supports S3 as the backing service for assets. This largely because of the `PostAsset#public_url` method implementation. (Would welcome any PRs that want to clean that up).

Be sure that you have the following environment variables setup (values are examples):

    ENV['AWS_ACCESS_KEY'] = "AKIAQWERRPIADFXGSJQ"
    ENV['AWS_SECRET_KEY'] = "CjBLCfdxasdf35p08dua;"
    ENV['AWS_BUCKET'] = "my.blog.assets"
    ENV['AWS_REGION'] = "us-west-1"


## Limitations

* Intended only for a personal site with a single blog.
* Not intended for use with multiple authors, though you can _sorta_ get around that.

## What Works

* Authorizing via IndieAuth
* Publishing text via MicroPub
* Creating/Editing/Removing Posts
* RSS Feed
* JSON Feed
* Tags
* Support for Media uploads via Admin
* Receiving Webmentions (just displayed in admin at this time)
* Sending Webmentions (sent manually at this time)
* Micropub Media Endpoint

## Still Working On

* Deleting / Undeleting Posts (via MicroPub, works fine via admin interface)
* Easier/Better Integration with the host application. Still requires a lot of hand-work to get things working smoothly.
* Syndication
* Pubsub

## Micropub Spec Implementation Status

Currently **23/34** test passing at the micropub.rocks tests: [https://micropub.rocks/implementation-reports/servers/278/Ix5NV57E72H4mWjUhdIh](https://micropub.rocks/implementation-reports/servers/278/Ix5NV57E72H4mWjUhdIh)

Or, checkout the entire [W3C Micropub Spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/micropub/#feature-li-1).

## Contributing
Fork, pull request.

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
